---
title: "Step 1: Connect to Egynte"
ms.reviewer: jhendr
author: JoanneHendrickson
ms.author: jhendr
manager: serdars
audience: ITPro
f1.keywords:
- CSH
ms.topic: article
ms.service: sharepoint-online
localization_priority: Priority
ms.collection: 
- m365solution-migratefileshares
- m365solution-migratetom365
- m365solution-scenario
- M365-collaboration
- SPMigration
search.appverid: MET150
description: "Step 1:  Connect to Egnyte" 
---
# Step 1:  Connect to Egynte

To connect to Egnyte in Migration, you first need to create an application using an Egnyte developer account. This will generate a pair of keys that you will enter along with your Egnyte domain name.


## Create your Egnyte app

If you already have an Egnyte developer account, just sign in.  Otherwise, follow the steps to create one.

1. Create an Egnyte developer account or sign in to an existing one.  [Register for an Egnyte developers account](https:/developers.egnyte.com/register)
2. From the developers page, select **Get API Key** > **Create a new application**.
3. Enter the required details for your new application. In the table below, we show suggested entries to quickly get an approval for your app. Note -- this does not include all the fields required.

|Field|Suggested entry|
|:-----|:----|
|Name of your application |My migration app|
|Type|Internal application |
|Current user base|New app|
|Platform |Web App|
|Egnyte domain that you will use for testing | Your organizations Egnyte domain|
|App Icon URL|Use image of your choice|

Under **Select which Web APIs you will use**, select:

- Issue a new key for Egnyte Connect API 
- Issue a new key for Egnyte protect


The keys are automatically generated by Egnyte.


## Connect to Egnyte

After you have created your new app in Egnyte, sign in to your Egnyte account to connect to your Microsoft 365 migration.

1. In the new SharePoint admin center, select [Migration Manager](https://admin.microsoft.com/sharepoint?page=migrationCenter&modern). 
2. Under **Egnyte**, select **Get started**.
3. Select **Connect to Egnyte**. 
4. Enter your **Egnyte domain**, **application key**, and **application secret** that were automatically generated by Egnyte and provided to you.
5. Select **Connect to Egnyte**. 



## Request rate limit increase

Your new Egnyte application lets you connect to your Egnyte account.  However, it will likely not let you migrate content to Microsoft 365 due to the limits Egnyte imposes on new applications.  You need to contact Egnyte support a request a rate limit increase for your application.

Sample email:

Subject:  Egnyte connection
Text:     I would like the user rate limties increase for my application [enter application name] to x calls per second and y calls per day.



