---
title: "Publish service applications in SharePoint Server"
ms.reviewer: 
ms.author: mikeplum
author: MikePlumleyMSFT
manager: pamgreen
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: sharepoint-server-itpro
localization_priority: Normal
ms.collection:
- IT_Sharepoint_Server
- IT_Sharepoint_Server_Top
ms.assetid: 46e0f7e7-cd69-41a5-9988-bd0e7db564d9
description: "Learn how to publish a service application in SharePoint Server."
---

# Publish service applications in SharePoint Server

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-2013-2016-2019-xxx-md](../includes/appliesto-2013-2016-2019-xxx-md.md)] 
  
In SharePoint Server, some service applications can be published across farms and thereby be made available over remote connections.
  
    
Before you begin this operation, review [Share service applications across farms in SharePoint Server](share-service-applications-across-farms.md) for information about prerequisites.

## Publish a service application by using Central Administration 
  
 **To publish a service application by using Central Administration**
  
1. Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Farm Administrators SharePoint group.
    
2. On Central Administration, click **Application Management**, and then click **Manage service applications**.
    
3. Click the row that contains the service application that you want to publish. Commands on the ribbon become available.
    
4. On the ribbon, click **Publish**.
    
5. In the **Publish Service Application** dialog box do the following tasks: 
    
   - Select the **Connection Type** that you want from the drop-down list. 
    
   - If you want the service application to be available to remote farms, select the check box for **Publish this Service Application to other farms**.
    
   - We recommend that you use the instructions in [Exchange trust certificates between farms in SharePoint Server](exchange-trust-certificates-between-farms.md) to establish trust between the two farms. 
    
   - Copy the Published URL into Notepad or another text editor. You must provide this URL to remote farms to connect the remote farms to the published service application. The URL will be similar to the following:
    
   **urn:schemas-microsoft-com:sharepoint:service:9c1870b7ee97445888d9e846519cfa27#authority=urn:uuid:02a493b92a5547828e21386e28056cba&amp;authority=https://ua_powershell:32844/Topology/topology.svc**
    
6. You can optionally provide descriptive text and a link to a Web page that will be visible to administrators of remote farms. After you have specified the publication options that you want, click **OK** to publish the service application. 
    
## Publish a service application by using Microsoft PowerShell

 **To publish a service application by using PowerShell**
  
1. Verify that you have the following memberships:
    
   - **securityadmin** fixed server role on the SQL Server instance. 
    
   - **db_owner** fixed database role on all databases that are to be updated. 
    
   - Administrators group on the server on which you are running the PowerShell cmdlets.
    
   An administrator can use the **Add-SPShellAdmin** cmdlet to grant permissions to use SharePoint Server cmdlets. 
    
   > [!NOTE]
   > If you do not have permissions, contact your Setup administrator or SQL Server administrator to request permissions. For additional information about PowerShell permissions, see [Add-SPShellAdmin](/powershell/module/sharepoint-server/add-spshelladmin). 
  
2. Start the SharePoint Management Shell.
    
3. At the PowerShell command prompt, type the following command:
    
   ```powershell
   Publish-SPServiceApplication -Identity <ServiceApplicationGUID>
   ```

   If you do not know the GUID of the service application, you can use the following PowerShell cmdlet to list all service applications in the farm, together with their GUIDS:
    
   ```powershell
   Get-SPServiceApplication
   ```

4. To view the published service application load balancer URL, type the following command and record the output: 
    
   ```powershell
   Get-SPTopologyServiceApplication
   ```

   Any connecting remote farms will need the information that is generated by this command.
    
## See also

#### Other Resources

[Publish-SPServiceApplication](/powershell/module/sharepoint-server/Publish-SPServiceApplication?view=sharepoint-ps)
  
[Get-SPServiceApplication](/powershell/module/sharepoint-server/Get-SPServiceApplication?view=sharepoint-ps)
  
[Get-SPTopologyServiceApplication](/powershell/module/sharepoint-server/Get-SPTopologyServiceApplication?view=sharepoint-ps)

