---
title: "SSL certificate management in central administration"
ms.reviewer: 
ms.author: v-nsatapathy
author: nimishasatapathy
manager: serdars
ms.date: 06/20/2022
audience: ITPro
f1.keywords:
- NOCSH
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: sharepoint-server-itpro
ms.localizationpriority: medium
ms.collection: IT_Sharepoint_Server_Top
ms.assetid: 88317397-e0cb-47c7-9093-7872bc685213
description: "Learn how you can use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate management to monitor and manage the lifecycle of SSL certificates in your SharePoint farm."
---

## SSL certificate management in central administration

Besides managing SSL certificates through PowerShell cmdlets, SharePoint also supports managing your SSL certificates in Central Administration. You'll see a new Certificates section in the Security landing page of Central Administration. Within this section you'll find links to **Manage certificates, Configure certificate management settings, and View certificate files**.

The **Manage certificates** page is the main page for managing the certificates in your SharePoint farm. From here you'll have full access to all of the certificate management functionality including creating new certificates, renewing existing certificates, viewing certificates, importing and exporting certificates, and so on. You'll be able to filter and sort the list of certificates based on various criteria such as certificate store and expiration date.

The **Configure certificate management settings** page lets you configure various settings such as your default organization information and certificate health analyzer rule notification thresholds.

The **View certificate files** page lists the Certificate Signing Request files and certificate export files generated by SharePoint. This makes it easy to retrieve these files even if you're accessing the Central Administration site remotely and don't have direct connectivity to the file shares that SharePoint would have access to.
