---
title: "View usage reports in SharePoint Server"
ms.author: jhendr
author: JoanneHendrickson
manager: pamgreen
ms.date: 3/12/2018
audience: ITPro
ms.topic: article
ms.prod: sharepoint-server-itpro
localization_priority: Normal
ms.collection: IT_Sharepoint_Server_Top
ms.assetid: 37a0dac5-fd6e-457d-aebd-7567c654501b
description: "Learn how to view the Popularity Trends report and the Most Popular Items report generated by the SharePoint Analytics Processing Component."
---

# View usage reports in SharePoint Server

[!INCLUDE[appliesto-2013-2016-2019-xxx-md](../includes/appliesto-2013-2016-2019-xxx-md.md)]
  
The Analytics Processing Component generates two reports that are based on usage event types:
  
- **Popularity Trends** shows usage event statistics for a site collection, a site, or an individual item in a library or list. 
    
- **Most Popular Items** shows usage event statistics for all items in a library or list. 
    
The reports are broken down per usage event type. The default usage event types are as follows: 
  
- **Views.** The number of views for a single item, page or document. 
    
- **Recommendations Displayed.** The number of times a single item, page or document was displayed as a recommendation. 
    
- **Recommendations Clicked.** The number of times a single item, page or document was clicked when it was displayed as a recommendation. 
    
If you have added any custom usage event types, these will also be displayed.
  
For more information about the Analytics Processing Component and usage events, see [Overview of analytics processing in SharePoint Server](../search/overview-of-analytics-processing.md). For information about search reports — for example, Number of Queries or Top Queries by Day — see "Usage reports" in [View search diagnostics in SharePoint Server](../search/view-search-diagnostics.md).
  
> [!NOTE]
> Usage reports are only available for Document Libraries and Product Catalog lists. 
  
## View the Popularity Trends report
<a name="BKMK_PopularityTrends"> </a>

The Popularity Trends report is an Excel report that shows daily and monthly hits and unique users per usage event type. The report shows the daily count for the last 14 days and the monthly count for the last three years.
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
> In a cross-site publishing scenario, the procedures below are performed on the authoring site collection. 
  
 **To view the Popularity Trends report for a site collection**
  
1. Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Site Collection Administrators group. 
    
2. In the site collection, on the **Settings** menu, click **Site Settings**.
    
3. On the **Site Settings** page, in the **Site Collection Administration** section, click **Popularity and Search Reports**.
    
4. On the **View Usage Reports** page, in the **Usage Reports** section, click **Usage**.
    
5. In the message box, click **Open** to open the report in Excel, or click **Save** or **Save as** to save the report. 
    
6. Click the tabs to view the usage report for the different usage event types.
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > The daily count for **Unique Users** shows the number of unique users per day. The monthly count for **Unique Users** shows the sum of unique users per day within the month ( SUM(UU/Day)) 
  
 **To view the Popularity Trends report for a site**
  
1. Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the default Owners group.
    
2. In the site collection, on the **Settings** menu, click **Site Settings**.
    
3. On the **Site Settings** page, in the **Site Administration** section, click **Popularity Trends**.
    
4. On the **View Usage Reports** page, in the **Usage Reports** section, click **Usage**.
    
5. In the message box, click **Open** to open the report in Excel, or click **Save** or **Save as** to save the report. 
    
6. Click the tabs to view the usage report for the different usage event types.
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > The daily count for **Unique Users** shows the number of unique users per day. The monthly count for **Unique Users** shows the sum of unique users per day within the month ( SUM(UU/Day)) 
  
 **To view the Popularity Trends report for a library or list item**
  
1. Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Visitors group.
    
2. In the site collection, browse to the library or list that contains the item for which you want to view the Popularity Trends report.
    
3. Select the item that you want to view the Popularity Trends report for, and then do one of the following:
    
  - For a library, click the **FILES** tab, and then, on the ribbon, click **Popularity Trends**.
    
  - For a list, click the **ITEMS** tab, and then, on the ribbon, click **Popularity Trends**.
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > If you select more than one item, the Popularity Trends report will only display statistics for the View usage event type. To see statistics for all usage event types, select one item only. 
  
4. In the message box, click **Open** to open the report in Excel, or click **Save** or **Save as** to save the report. 
    
5. Click the tabs to view the usage report for the different usage event types.
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > The daily count for **Unique Users** shows the number of unique users per day. The monthly count for **Unique Users** shows the sum of unique users per day ( SUM(UU/Day)) for a given month. 
  
## View the Most Popular Items report
<a name="BKMK_MostPopular"> </a>

The Most Popular Items report lists the most popular items per usage event type for all items in a library or list —for example, the most viewed items in the library or list. The report can be sorted by the time periods **Recent** or **Ever**. By default, the Recent time period is set to the last 14 days, but you can change this setting to be any value from 1 to 14 days. For information about how to change the Recent time period, see "To change the Recent time period for a usage event" in [Configure recommendations and usage event types in SharePoint Server](configure-recommendations-and-usage-event-types.md). The Ever time period is from the first time that the item became available up to present day.
  
> [!IMPORTANT]
> In a cross-site publishing scenario, the procedures below are performed on the authoring site collection. 
  
 **To view the Most Popular Items report for all items in a SharePoint library or list**
  
1. Verify that the user account that is performing this procedure is a member of the Visitors group.
    
2. In the site collection, browse to the library or list for which you want to view the Most Popular Items report, and then do one of the following:
    
  - For a library, click the **LIBRARY** tab, and then, on the ribbon, click **Most Popular Items**.
    
  - For a list, click the **LIST** tab, and then, on the ribbon, click **Most Popular Items**.
    
3. By default, the report lists items in the library or list that has most views for the Recent time period. To view other rankings, do the following:
    
  - To view a report that lists items for a different usage event types, select a usage event type from the menu at the top of the page.
    
  - To view a report that list items for the complete time period the item was available, click **Ever**.
    
  - To search within the report list, type a search word in the search box on the top of the page.
    
    > [!NOTE]
    > The usage event **Most Views by Unique Users** shows a ranking based on the sum of unique users per day ( SUM(UU/day)) within the specified time period. > To view the Popularity Trends report for a specific item in the list, click the **Popularity Trends** link located under the item URL. 
  
## See also
<a name="BKMK_MostPopular"> </a>

#### Concepts

[Configure recommendations and usage event types in SharePoint Server](configure-recommendations-and-usage-event-types.md)

