---
title: Backup and restore in SharePoint Server
ms.prod: SHAREPOINT
ms.assetid: 71abd06e-6730-442e-b2c1-e3ba9c04d497
---


# Backup and restore in SharePoint Server
 **We are in the process of combining the SharePoint Server 2013 and SharePoint Server 2016 content into a single content set. We appreciate your patience while we reorganize things. See the Applies To tag at the top of each article to find out which version of SharePoint an article applies to.** * **Applies to:** SharePoint Foundation 2013, SharePoint Server 2013, SharePoint Server 2016*  * **Topic Last Modified:** 2017-08-04* **Summary: ** Learn about how to prepare to back up and restore and complete specific operations for SharePoint Server 2016 and SharePoint 2013.The following articles on TechNet and related resources provide information that information technology (IT) professionals must have to plan, design, and deploy backup and restore solutions for SharePoint Server.
## TechNet articles about backup and restore

The following articles about backup and restore solutions are available to view online. The solutions that these articles describe might be in enterprise, corporate, or branch-office environments. The IT professionals who are responsible for backup and restore solutions are expected to have an understanding of the technical details that are contained in this section. However, service-level expertise is not required to understand the enterprise-level discussions and decisions.A backup is a copy of data that is used to restore and recover that data after a system failure. Backups enable you to restore data after a failure. Recovery enables you to quickly restore the farm when a problem arises. You can recover the complete farm or one or more components of the farm from a backup.
### 

ContentDescription [Overview of backup and recovery in SharePoint Server](html/overview-of-backup-and-recovery-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Understand the backup and recovery scenarios for SharePoint Server.  <br/>  [Plan for backup and recovery in SharePoint Server](html/plan-for-backup-and-recovery-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Plan backup and recovery strategies for SharePoint Server.  <br/>  [Prepare to back up and restore farms in SharePoint Server](html/prepare-to-back-up-and-restore-farms-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Provides information to help you understand the backup and restore process in your environment.  <br/>  [Configure backup and restore permissions in SharePoint Server](html/configure-backup-and-restore-permissions-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Provides the appropriate permissions and group memberships required for backup and restore operations.  <br/>  [Backup solutions in SharePoint Server](html/backup-solutions-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Provides backup solutions for your environment.  <br/>  [Restore solutions in SharePoint Server](html/restore-solutions-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Provides restore solutions for your environment.  <br/>  [Backup and restore best practices in SharePoint Server](html/backup-and-restore-best-practices-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Learn how to implement best practices before you back up and restore a SharePoint Server farm.  <br/> 
