---
title: Configure SharePoint Server 2016
ms.prod: SHAREPOINT
ms.assetid: 069bcdb5-f9bb-4346-8304-5be2f768e3dc
---


# Configure SharePoint Server 2016
 **We are in the process of combining the SharePoint Server 2013 and SharePoint Server 2016 content into a single content set. We appreciate your patience while we reorganize things. See the Applies To tag at the top of each article to find out which version of SharePoint an article applies to.** * **Applies to:** SharePoint Server 2016*  * **Topic Last Modified:** 2017-05-16* **Summary: ** Lists articles that describe how to configure settings (such as services, authentication, and specific features) after you install SharePoint Server 2016.After you install SharePoint Server 2016, you must configure several additional settings to enable key features in your farm. The articles in this section provide steps for configuring these settings.
## TechNet articles about how to configure settings for the server farm

The following articles about how to configure settings for the server farm are available to view online. 
### 

ContentDescription [Configure services and service applications in SharePoint Server](html/configure-services-and-service-applications-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> These articles describe how to configure services and service applications.  <br/>  [Configure My Sites and OneDrive for Business in SharePoint Server](html/configure-my-sites-and-onedrive-for-business-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Learn how to configure My Sites and OneDrive for Business in a SharePoint Server 2016 environment.  <br/>  [Configure eDiscovery in SharePoint Server](html/configure-ediscovery-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Learn the steps to set up and configure eDiscovery in SharePoint Server 2016, Exchange Server 2016, and Exchange Server 2013.  <br/>  [Configure enterprise search in SharePoint Server 2016](html/configure-enterprise-search-in-sharepoint-server-2016.md) <br/> Learn how to configure the Search service application and set up a Search Center in SharePoint Server 2016.  <br/>  [Manage the Distributed Cache service in SharePoint Server](html/manage-the-distributed-cache-service-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Learn how to configure and manage the Distributed Cache service in SharePoint Server 2016.  <br/>  [Configure site mailboxes in SharePoint Server](html/configure-site-mailboxes-in-sharepoint-server.md) <br/> Learn how to configure the Site Mailboxes feature in SharePoint Server 2016.  <br/>  [Custom Tiles in SharePoint Server 2016](html/custom-tiles-in-sharepoint-server-2016.md) <br/> Describes Custom Tiles, one of the new features in the November 2016 Public Update for SharePoint Server 2016 (Feature Pack 1).  <br/>  [Configure availability and recovery solutions for SharePoint Server 2016](html/configure-availability-and-recovery-solutions-for-sharepoint-server-2016.md) <br/> Learn about options for providing high availability and disaster recovery solutions for SharePoint Server 2016.  <br/>  [Configure email integration for a SharePoint Server farm](html/configure-email-integration-for-a-sharepoint-server-farm.md) <br/> Learn how to set up incoming and outgoing email in SharePoint Server 2016.  <br/>  [Turn on automated document translation in SharePoint Server 2016](html/turn-on-automated-document-translation-in-sharepoint-server-2016.md) <br/> Learn how to create and configure Machine Translation Service for SharePoint Server 2016.  <br/> 
